the newspaper chase. The time is one o'clock in the morning.
The place is the
rights-filled town art gallery. A window opens and a man comes
in. His name is
Harry Black, and he is a thief. It is dark in the
art gallery, but Harry has a
light. He looks across the room at a painting. There it is,
he says. Harry
moves quickly across the room. He stands and looks at the painting.
A million
dollars for this, he thinks. I don't understand it, but he takes
a knife from
his coat. Then he takes the painting very, very slowly from its
frame. Harry goes
back across the room to the window, but he walks into a
table. There is a beautiful
blue glass vase on the table. It falls on the floor and
breaks into a hundred
pieces. Harry smiles. Is that a million dollar vase, he thinks. It
isn't now. He
runs across the pieces of glass to the window. Harry has a
room in Mrs. Allen's
room, quietly up to his room and closes the door. Mrs. Allen
and her daughter,
Janie, are sleeping. They don't hear him. In his room, Harry takes
the painting from
his bag. He puts it in a newspaper. Then he puts the
newspaper under his bed. In
the morning, Janie Allen is in the kitchen. She's putting old bottles
into a box.
Recycling is important, Janie thinks. On the TV, a reporter is at
the
rightsville art gallery. He is talking about the painting. It's a million
dollar
painting, he is saying. Here's a photo of it. Now the reporter
is talking about the
blue glass vase. It's in a hundred pieces now, he says. Janie
looks at the photo of
the vase. Then she asks her mother. Do you have any old
bottles? No, Mrs. Allen says.
That's all, Janie. But the newspaper recycling truck is coming today.
Of course, Janie says. It's Friday. Harry isn't in his room. He
is talking on his
telephone to a man in Seattle. The man wants the painting, but
Harry isn't happy.
$5,000, Harry says. No, it's a million dollar painting. What? No,
I want 50,000, not
five. What? The painting. Yes, I have it. And it's okay. Janie
is looking for old
newspapers. Early on Friday mornings, she takes them from every room in
the house.
Then, later, the newspaper recycling truck arrives. Janie opens Harry's door and
looks
into his room. She always takes his old newspapers or bottles for
recycling. Ah, she thinks. There's
a newspaper under Harry's bed. Janie puts the old newspapers into a
black recycling box.
She runs from the house and sees the truck. Wait, she says,
and she quickly gives the
box to one of the men. Harry is coming back to the
house. He sees the recycling truck,
and he sees Janie. It's Friday, he says. The newspaper. Oh, no.
Harry chases after the truck.
Wait, wait. He says. Janie watches him. What is he doing? She
thinks. Harry jumps into the
back of the truck. I want my newspaper, he says. Where's my
newspaper? But there are
thousands of newspapers in the truck. Janie walks quickly from the house
to the truck.
Why is your newspaper important, Harry? She asks. It's two days old,
but Harry doesn't hear her.
He is thinking, my million dollar painting. Where is it? The men
from the recycling truck
are watching Harry too. But now Janie is looking at Harry's shoe.
There's some blue glass and
Harry's shoe, Janie thinks. Where? Oh. Suddenly, she remembers the photo of
the blue glass face on
the TV. She looks again at the piece of glass and Harry's
shoe. Is it from the vase in the art
of the recycling truck are angry? We're going now. They are saying.
We're late. But I want my
newspaper, Harry says. In the house, Janie is talking to the police
on the telephone. Maybe I'm wrong,
she is saying. But there's blue glass in his shoe. What? Yes,
he's looking for the newspaper now.
Two policemen arrive quickly. Let's look at your shoe. They say to
Harry. Harry doesn't understand.
What's wrong? He asks. One of the policemen takes the glass from
Harry's shoe.
This is a very expensive piece of glass, he says, from a
very expensive vase. Remember?
Suddenly, Harry understands. Oh, no, he says. Police cars and policemen arrive.
The men look in the truck for the million dollar painting. Later,
they find the right newspaper
and they find the painting. Good work, Janie, one of the policemen
says. And there's a reward.
Maybe I can buy a painting with a reward, Janie says. I
like pictures.